  By using this work in any way, you must comply with the following license,
version 0.1 or later (see section 6 about future versions).


                 Libre Opera License v.0.1

0. Introduction

  This license basically wraps together a Creative Commons license applying to
the score as a narrative work, and a General Public License that applies to the
source code behind it.

  The GNU General Public License, version 3 or later, is reproduced in the
COPYING document.

  The Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license is
reproduced in the PERFORMING document.

1. Definitions

  The "work" means the copyrightable work licensed under this License; the
General Public License may refer to it as "the program". The different authors
and licensors are listed in the THANKS document, with contact informations. 
Each licensee (individuals or organizations) is addressed as "you". 

  The "source code" of the work is defined by the General Public License; it
means the full machine- and human-readable (where possible) code needed to
generate the score and/or any other document or file needed to perform, modify
or reproduce the work.  In some parts, the General Public License may refer to
it as the "Corresponding Source".

  The "narrative work" means any performance of the work or based on the work,
either computer- or human-generated, any media resulting from such a
performance, and any use of narrative elements (characters, events, lyrics,
dramatic structure).  The Creative Commons license refers to it as the "Work".

2. Source Code

  If you want to modify and/or redistribute this work, you must comply with the
GNU General Public License, with the following exception:
  any interpretation of the source code as a narrative work is not regarded as
an object-code form of the work, and therefore will be covered by the Creative
Commons by-NC-SA license instead of the GPL license.
  The source code of the work, however, may be compiled, printed and reproduced
as a printed score under the terms and conditions of the GPL license.

3. Narrative work

  If you want to perform and/or record and/or distribute any recording based on
the narrative work, you must comply with the Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license, with the following exceptions:
  in addition to the credits specified in section 4(d) of the license, if you
publicly perform, or distribute, any media resulting from the narrative work,
you must provide in a reasonable manner, either (i) the full machine-readable
source code that has been used to generate the score, or (ii) a written document
offering full access to the source code at no charge, to the general public.
  The title of the narrative work may differ from the title of the source code;
if so, both titles have to be mentioned whenever the narrative work (or a
derived work) it either distributed or publicly performed.

4. Derivative works

  Modifying this work is possible in three distinct ways:
  
  a. You may use the source code (or parts of the source code) in a completely
different work, which must not include any narrative element of the original
work; in this case the only license you must comply with is the GPL license, as
specified in section 2.

  b. You may use the source code to produce a modified version of the narrative
work (for instance by keeping some characters or events, or by translating text
elements); in this case you must comply with the full license, as well as the
GPL license and the Creative Commons license it depends on.  A copy of all three
licences must be distributed with the work.

  c. You may use a performance (or a media resulting from a performance) of the
narrative work to produce a new work, without modifying its original source
code.  In this case you must comply with the Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license, as specified in section 3; if the
derivative work includes any other computer-readable elements, you must also
provide the corresponding source for these elements, as well as the unmodified
source code of the original work.

5. Special authorizations

  As implied by the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic
Works, special authorizations can be given by the authors to use this work
outside the terms of its license.  Such authorizations have to be requested
directly from any of the authors, for specific purposes and motivations; such
authorizations (if granted) will not change any of the terms of this license,
and will remain limited in their extent and implications.

6. Future versions of this license

  The terms specified by this license are valid for as long as the copyright of
the work remains applicable in the country where it is read or performed, and
therefore no future version of this license will add any obligations to these.
  If you ever were to find more restrictive terms in a future version, you may
use an older version at your convenience.  However, later versions may imply
additional permissions by specifying less restrictive terms and conditions.